Your boss tasked you with training a new co-worker,
now what?
The skills that make you a top performer
don't automatically make you the best teacher.
So, how can you create a smooth experience
and get your co-worker up to speed quickly?
Effective training begins with preparation.
Having the necessary space, software and processes prepared
equips your new co-worker with the resources they need
to learn and excel.
It also helps you stay organized
and on top of training goals.
First, secure the space and tools your co-worker needs
to do their job.
This includes software or other accounts,
workspace and work equipment.
Next, develop a training plan.
What's your end goal, and how will you get there?
Identify learning outcomes first,
and then backtrack
to map out the milestones and steps to reach them.
Finally, document all work processes, procedures
or other information you plan to cover during training.
Your co-worker will likely feel overloaded at first
by new information.
Not all of it will stick.
Digitally documenting work processes and training
gives co-workers a resource
they can refer back to as needed.
If this is your first time training someone,
you might feel insecure about your mentoring skills.
Remind yourself that you don't have to be a manager
to have valuable knowledge and experience to share.
The best trainers have empathy.
Try putting yourself in a trainee's shoes.
What do you wish someone had told you
when you first started?
What resources would you have found helpful
during your first weeks on the job?
You can also create a better learning experience
by following these six training tips.
First, personalize training
by getting to know your co-worker.
Establishing good rapport
and introducing your co-worker to other team members
is equally important for their acclimation and success.
If you're training a co-worker in person,
consider having them shadow you for the first day
or week on the job.
Or, if you're training remotely,
share your screen over video calls.
Give examples to show what you mean.
Practice makes perfect
and learning by doing
is one of the most effective ways for trainees
to boost retention or identify knowledge gaps.
Make sure to review their work and give regular feedback.
At the same time,
don't overwhelm new co-workers with too much, too fast.
Instead, control the flow of information
by breaking training into small, incremental steps.
This point can be tricky to navigate.
While you don't want to throw a new hire
in the deep end right away,
you should also avoid doing everything for them.
Strike the right balance by establishing stepping stones
and increase your co-workers responsibilities over time.
For our next tip,
remember that you're not only training a co-worker
on how to do a job,
you're also teaching them how to excel
within your company culture.
Look for opportunities to highlight your team values
in everyday actions and decisions.
Finally, ask your co-worker how things are going
on a regular basis.
Do they have any questions?
Have they come across issues or problems?
Some employees may feel too intimidated or embarrassed
to bring up a question unless you approach them.
Or, they may not even think about questions
until you carve out the time and space
Training others demands different skills
than doing the job yourself.
There will likely to be a learning curve
for both trainer and trainee.
However, with preparation, patience
and a good training plan,
you can successfully get a new co-worker up to speed.